CERN Open Hardware Licence Version 2 - Weakly Reciprocal


Preamble

CERN has developed this licence to promote collaboration among
hardware designers and to provide a legal tool which supports the
freedom to use, study, modify, share and distribute hardware designs
and products based on those designs. Version 2 of the CERN Open
Hardware Licence comes in three variants: CERN-OHL-P (permissive); and
two reciprocal licences: this licence, CERN-OHL-W (weakly reciprocal)
and CERN-OHL-S (strongly reciprocal).

The CERN-OHL-W is copyright CERN 2020. Anyone is welcome to use it, in
unmodified form only.

Use of this Licence does not imply any endorsement by CERN of any
Licensor or their designs nor does it imply any involvement by CERN in
their development.


1 Definitions

  1.1 'Licence' means this CERN-OHL-W.

  1.2 'Compatible Licence' means

       a) any earlier version of the CERN Open Hardware licence, or

       b) any version of the CERN-OHL-S or the CERN-OHL-W, or

       c) any licence which permits You to treat the Source to which
          it applies as licensed under CERN-OHL-S or CERN-OHL-W
          provided that on Conveyance of any such Source, or any
          associated Product You treat the Source in question as being
          licensed under CERN-OHL-S or CERN-OHL-W as appropriate.

  1.3 'Source' means information such as design materials or digital
      code which can be applied to Make or test a Product or to
      prepare a Product for use, Conveyance or sale, regardless of its
      medium or how it is expressed. It may include Notices.

  1.4 'Covered Source' means Source that is explicitly made available
      under this Licence.

  1.5 'Product' means any device, component, work or physical object,
      whether in finished or intermediate form, arising from the use,
      application or processing of Covered Source.

  1.6 'Make' means to create or configure something, whether by
      manufacture, assembly, compiling, loading or applying Covered
      Source or another Product or otherwise.

  1.7 'Available Component' means any part, sub-assembly, library or
      code which:

       a) is licensed to You as Complete Source under a Compatible
          Licence; or

       b) is available, at the time a Product or the Source containing
          it is first Conveyed, to You and any other prospective
          licensees

           i) with sufficient rights and information (including any
              configuration and programming files and information
              about its characteristics and interfaces) to enable it
              either to be Made itself, or to be sourced and used to
              Make the Product; or
          ii) as part of the normal distribution of a tool used to
              design or Make the Product.

  1.8 'External Material' means anything (including Source) which:

       a) is only combined with Covered Source in such a way that it
          interfaces with the Covered Source using a documented
          interface which is described in the Covered Source; and

       b) is not a derivative of or contains Covered Source, or, if it
          is, it is solely to the extent necessary to facilitate such
          interfacing.

  1.9 'Complete Source' means the set of all Source necessary to Make
      a Product, in the preferred form for making modifications,
      including necessary installation and interfacing information
      both for the Product, and for any included Available Components.
      If the format is proprietary, it must also be made available in
      a format (if the proprietary tool can create it) which is
      viewable with a tool available to potential licensees and
      licensed under a licence approved by the Free Software
      Foundation or the Open Source Initiative. Complete Source need
      not include the Source of any Available Component, provided that
      You include in the Complete Source sufficient information to
      enable a recipient to Make or source and use the Available
      Component to Make the Product.

 1.10 'Source Location' means a location where a Licensor has placed
      Covered Source, and which that Licensor reasonably believes will
      remain easily accessible for at least three years for anyone to
      obtain a digital copy.

 1.11 'Notice' means copyright, acknowledgement and trademark notices,
      Source Location references, modification notices (subsection
      3.3(b)) and all notices that refer to this Licence and to the
      disclaimer of warranties that are included in the Covered
      Source.

 1.12 'Licensee' or 'You' means any person exercising rights under
      this Licence.

 1.13 'Licensor' means a natural or legal person who creates or
      modifies Covered Source. A person may be a Licensee and a
      Licensor at the same time.

 1.14 'Convey' means to communicate to the public or distribute.


2 Applicability

  2.1 This Licence governs the use, copying, modification, Conveying
      of Covered Source and Products, and the Making of Products. By
      exercising any right granted under this Licence, You irrevocably
      accept these terms and conditions.

  2.2 This Licence is granted by the Licensor directly to You, and
      shall apply worldwide and without limitation in time.

  2.3 You shall not attempt to restrict by contract or otherwise the
      rights granted under this Licence to other Licensees.

  2.4 This Licence is not intended to restrict fair use, fair dealing,
      or any other similar right.


3 Copying, Modifying and Conveying Covered Source

  3.1 You may copy and Convey verbatim copies of Covered Source, in
      any medium, provided You retain all Notices.

  3.2 You may modify Covered Source, other than Notices, provided that
      You irrevocably undertake to make that modified Covered Source
      available from a Source Location should You Convey a Product in
      circumstances where the recipient does not otherwise receive a
      copy of the modified Covered Source. In each case subsection 3.3
      shall apply.

      You may only delete Notices if they are no longer applicable to
      the corresponding Covered Source as modified by You and You may
      add additional Notices applicable to Your modifications.

  3.3 You may Convey modified Covered Source (with the effect that You
      shall also become a Licensor) provided that You:

       a) retain Notices as required in subsection 3.2;

       b) add a Notice to the modified Covered Source stating that You
          have modified it, with the date and brief description of how
          You have modified it;

       c) add a Source Location Notice for the modified Covered Source
          if You Convey in circumstances where the recipient does not
          otherwise receive a copy of the modified Covered Source; and

       d) license the modified Covered Source under the terms and
          conditions of this Licence (or, as set out in subsection
          8.3, a later version, if permitted by the licence of the
          original Covered Source). Such modified Covered Source must
          be licensed as a whole, but excluding Available Components
          contained in it or External Material to which it is
          interfaced, which remain licensed under their own applicable
          licences.


4 Making and Conveying Products

  4.1 You may Make Products, and/or Convey them, provided that You
      either provide each recipient with a copy of the Complete Source
      or ensure that each recipient is notified of the Source Location
      of the Complete Source. That Complete Source includes Covered
      Source and You must accordingly satisfy Your obligations set out
      in subsection 3.3. If specified in a Notice, the Product must
      visibly and securely display the Source Location on it or its
      packaging or documentation in the manner specified in that
      Notice.

  4.2 Where You Convey a Product which incorporates External Material,
      the Complete Source for that Product which You are required to
      provide under subsection 4.1 need not include any Source for the
      External Material.

  4.3 You may license Products under terms of Your choice, provided
      that such terms do not restrict or attempt to restrict any
      recipients' rights under this Licence to the Covered Source.


5 Research and Development

You may Convey Covered Source, modified Covered Source or Products to
a legal entity carrying out development, testing or quality assurance
work on Your behalf provided that the work is performed on terms which
prevent the entity from both using the Source or Products for its own
internal purposes and Conveying the Source or Products or any
modifications to them to any person other than You. Any modifications
made by the entity shall be deemed to be made by You pursuant to
subsection 3.2.


6 DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY

  6.1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY -- The Covered Source and any Products
      are provided 'as is' and any express or implied warranties,
      including, but not limited to, implied warranties of
      merchantability, of satisfactory quality, non-infringement of
      third party rights, and fitness for a particular purpose or use
      are disclaimed in respect of any Source or Product to the
      maximum extent permitted by law. The Licensor makes no
      representation that any Source or Product does not or will not
      infringe any patent, copyright, trade secret or other
      proprietary right. The entire risk as to the use, quality, and
      performance of any Source or Product shall be with You and not
      the Licensor. This disclaimer of warranty is an essential part
      of this Licence and a condition for the grant of any rights
      granted under this Licence.

  6.2 EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY -- The Licensor shall, to
      the maximum extent permitted by law, have no liability for
      direct, indirect, special, incidental, consequential, exemplary,
      punitive or other damages of any character including, without
      limitation, procurement of substitute goods or services, loss of
      use, data or profits, or business interruption, however caused
      and on any theory of contract, warranty, tort (including
      negligence), product liability or otherwise, arising in any way
      in relation to the Covered Source, modified Covered Source
      and/or the Making or Conveyance of a Product, even if advised of
      the possibility of such damages, and You shall hold the
      Licensor(s) free and harmless from any liability, costs,
      damages, fees and expenses, including claims by third parties,
      in relation to such use.


7 Patents

  7.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Licence, each
      Licensor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
      non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as
      stated in subsections 7.2 and 8.4) patent licence to Make, have
      Made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer
      the Covered Source and Products, where such licence applies only
      to those patent claims licensable by such Licensor that are
      necessarily infringed by exercising rights under the Covered
      Source as Conveyed by that Licensor.

  7.2 If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including
      a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the
      Covered Source or a Product constitutes direct or contributory
      patent infringement, or You seek any declaration that a patent
      licensed to You under this Licence is invalid or unenforceable
      then any rights granted to You under this Licence shall
      terminate as of the date such process is initiated.


8 General

  8.1 If any provisions of this Licence are or subsequently become
      invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining
      provisions shall remain effective.

  8.2 You shall not use any of the name (including acronyms and
      abbreviations), image, or logo by which the Licensor or CERN is
      known, except where needed to comply with section 3, or where
      the use is otherwise allowed by law. Any such permitted use
      shall be factual and shall not be made so as to suggest any kind
      of endorsement or implication of involvement by the Licensor or
      its personnel.

  8.3 CERN may publish updated versions and variants of this Licence
      which it considers to be in the spirit of this version, but may
      differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. New
      versions will be published with a unique version number and a
      variant identifier specifying the variant. If the Licensor has
      specified that a given variant applies to the Covered Source
      without specifying a version, You may treat that Covered Source
      as being released under any version of the CERN-OHL with that
      variant. If no variant is specified, the Covered Source shall be
      treated as being released under CERN-OHL-S. The Licensor may
      also specify that the Covered Source is subject to a specific
      version of the CERN-OHL or any later version in which case You
      may apply this or any later version of CERN-OHL with the same
      variant identifier published by CERN.

      You may treat Covered Source licensed under CERN-OHL-W as
      licensed under CERN-OHL-S if and only if all Available
      Components referenced in the Covered Source comply with the
      corresponding definition of Available Component for CERN-OHL-S.

  8.4 This Licence shall terminate with immediate effect if You fail
      to comply with any of its terms and conditions.

  8.5 However, if You cease all breaches of this Licence, then Your
      Licence from any Licensor is reinstated unless such Licensor has
      terminated this Licence by giving You, while You remain in
      breach, a notice specifying the breach and requiring You to cure
      it within 30 days, and You have failed to come into compliance
      in all material respects by the end of the 30 day period. Should
      You repeat the breach after receipt of a cure notice and
      subsequent reinstatement, this Licence will terminate
      immediately and permanently. Section 6 shall continue to apply
      after any termination.

  8.6 This Licence shall not be enforceable except by a Licensor
      acting as such, and third party beneficiary rights are
      specifically excluded.


===============================================================================
This project is a modification of the librespacefoundation/qubik/qubik-spb/
SideSolarPowerBoard project, licensed under CERN OHL v1.2.

CHANGES:
For a complete listing of changes, please refer to the git commit history.
- Relicensed to CERN-OHL-v2-W

Original license from pq9ish-comms-vu-hw repository:
https://gitlab.com/librespacefoundation/pq9ish/pq9ish-comms-vu-hw
(c) Copyright Libre Space Foundation
===============================================================================

CERN Open Hardware Licence v1.2 

Preamble

Through this CERN Open Hardware Licence ("CERN OHL") version 1.2, CERN
wishes to provide a tool to foster collaboration and sharing among
hardware designers.  The CERN OHL is copyright CERN. Anyone is welcome
to use the CERN OHL, in unmodified form only, for the distribution of
their own Open Hardware designs. Any other right is reserved. Release
of hardware designs under the CERN OHL does not constitute an
endorsement of the licensor or its designs nor does it imply any
involvement by CERN in the development of such designs.

1. Definitions

In this Licence, the following terms have the following meanings:
 
“Licence” means this CERN OHL.

“Documentation” means schematic diagrams, designs, circuit or circuit
board layouts, mechanical drawings, flow charts and descriptive text,
and other explanatory material that is explicitly stated as being made
available under the conditions of this Licence. The Documentation may
be in any medium, including but not limited to computer files and
representations on paper, film, or any other media.

“Documentation Location” means a location where the Licensor has
placed Documentation, and which he believes will be publicly
accessible for at least three years from the first communication to
the public or distribution of Documentation.

“Product” means either an entire, or any part of a, device built using
the Documentation or the modified Documentation.

“Licensee” means any natural or legal person exercising rights under
this Licence.

“Licensor” means any natural or legal person that creates or modifies
Documentation and subsequently communicates to the public and/ or
distributes the resulting Documentation under the terms and conditions
of this Licence.

A Licensee may at the same time be a Licensor, and vice versa. 

Use of the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders
and is employed solely to facilitate reading.

2. Applicability

2.1. This Licence governs the use, copying, modification,
communication to the public and distribution of the Documentation, and
the manufacture and distribution of Products. By exercising any right
granted under this Licence, the Licensee irrevocably accepts these
terms and conditions.

2.2. This Licence is granted by the Licensor directly to the Licensee,
and shall apply worldwide and without limitation in time. The Licensee
may assign his licence rights or grant sub-licences.

2.3. This Licence does not extend to software, firmware, or code
loaded into programmable devices which may be used in conjunction with
the Documentation, the modified Documentation or with Products, unless
such software, firmware, or code is explicitly expressed to be subject
to this Licence. The use of such software, firmware, or code is
otherwise subject to the applicable licence terms and conditions.

3. Copying, modification, communication to the public and distribution
of the Documentation

3.1. The Licensee shall keep intact all copyright and trademarks
notices, all notices referring to Documentation Location, and all
notices that refer to this Licence and to the disclaimer of warranties
that are included in the Documentation. He shall include a copy
thereof in every copy of the Documentation or, as the case may be,
modified Documentation, that he communicates to the public or
distributes.

3.2. The Licensee may copy, communicate to the public and distribute
verbatim copies of the Documentation, in any medium, subject to the
requirements specified in section 3.1.

3.3. The Licensee may modify the Documentation or any portion thereof
provided that upon modification of the Documentation, the Licensee
shall make the modified Documentation available from a Documentation
Location such that it can be easily located by an original Licensor
once the Licensee communicates to the public or distributes the
modified Documentation under section 3.4, and, where required by
section 4.1, by a recipient of a Product. However, the Licensor shall
not assert his rights under the foregoing proviso unless or until a
Product is distributed.

3.4. The Licensee may communicate to the public and distribute the
modified Documentation (thereby in addition to being a Licensee also
becoming a Licensor), always provided that he shall:

a) comply with section 3.1;

b) cause the modified Documentation to carry prominent notices stating
that the Licensee has modified the Documentation, with the date and
description of the modifications;

c) cause the modified Documentation to carry a new Documentation
Location notice if the original Documentation provided for one;

d) make available the modified Documentation at the same level of
abstraction as that of the Documentation, in the preferred format for
making modifications to it (e.g. the native format of the CAD tool as
applicable), and in the event that format is proprietary, in a format
viewable with a tool licensed under an OSI-approved license if the
proprietary tool can create it; and

e) license the modified Documentation under the terms and conditions
of this Licence or, where applicable, a later version of this Licence
as may be issued by CERN.

3.5. The Licence includes a non-exclusive licence to those patents or
registered designs that are held by, under the control of, or
sub-licensable by the Licensor, to the extent necessary to make use of
the rights granted under this Licence. The scope of this section 3.5
shall be strictly limited to the parts of the Documentation or
modified Documentation created by the Licensor.

4. Manufacture and distribution of Products

4.1. The Licensee may manufacture or distribute Products always
provided that, where such manufacture or distribution requires a
licence under this Licence the Licensee provides to each recipient of
such Products an easy means of accessing a copy of the Documentation
or modified Documentation, as applicable, as set out in section 3.

4.2. The Licensee is invited to inform any Licensor who has indicated
his wish to receive this information about the type, quantity and
dates of production of Products the Licensee has (had) manufactured

5. Warranty and liability

5.1. DISCLAIMER – The Documentation and any modified Documentation are
provided "as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but
not limited to, implied warranties of merchantability, of satisfactory
quality, non-infringement of third party rights, and fitness for a
particular purpose or use are disclaimed in respect of the
Documentation, the modified Documentation or any Product. The Licensor
makes no representation that the Documentation, modified
Documentation, or any Product, does or will not infringe any patent,
copyright, trade secret or other proprietary right. The entire risk as
to the use, quality, and performance of a Product shall be with the
Licensee and not the Licensor. This disclaimer of warranty is an
essential part of this Licence and a condition for the grant of any
rights granted under this Licence. The Licensee warrants that it does
not act in a consumer capacity.

5.2. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY – The Licensor shall have no liability
for direct, indirect, special, incidental, consequential, exemplary,
punitive or other damages of any character including, without
limitation, procurement of substitute goods or services, loss of use,
data or profits, or business interruption, however caused and on any
theory of contract, warranty, tort (including negligence), product
liability or otherwise, arising in any way in relation to the
Documentation, modified Documentation and/or the use, manufacture or
distribution of a Product, even if advised of the possibility of such
damages, and the Licensee shall hold the Licensor(s) free and harmless
from any liability, costs, damages, fees and expenses, including
claims by third parties, in relation to such use.

6. General

6.1. Except for the rights explicitly granted hereunder, this Licence
does not imply or represent any transfer or assignment of intellectual
property rights to the Licensee.

6.2. The Licensee shall not use or make reference to any of the names
(including acronyms and abbreviations), images, or logos under which
the Licensor is known, save in so far as required to comply with
section 3. Any such permitted use or reference shall be factual and
shall in no event suggest any kind of endorsement by the Licensor or
its personnel of the modified Documentation or any Product, or any
kind of implication by the Licensor or its personnel in the
preparation of the modified Documentation or Product.

6.3. CERN may publish updated versions of this Licence which retain
the same general provisions as this version, but differ in detail so
far this is required and reasonable. New versions will be published
with a unique version number.

6.4. This Licence shall terminate with immediate effect, upon written
notice and without involvement of a court if the Licensee fails to
comply with any of its terms and conditions, or if the Licensee
initiates legal action against Licensor in relation to this
Licence. Section 5 shall continue to apply.